What is the chemical symbol for gold?
Au

What is the capital of Australia?
Canberra

What year did World War II begin?
1939

What is the value of pi to two decimal places?
3.14

What is the largest planet in our solar system?
Jupiter

What is the name of Earth's natural satellite?
The Moon

Who painted the Mona Lisa?
Leonardo da Vinci

What is the smallest country in the world?
Vatican City

How many sides does a hexagon have?
Six

What is the speed of light in a vacuum?
299,792,458 meters per second

What is the boiling point of water in Celsius?
100 degrees

What is the name of the longest river in the world?
The Amazon River

What is the name of the first book of the Old Testament?
Genesis

What is the capital of Canada?
Ottawa

What is the chemical symbol for silver?
Ag

What is the name of the first US president?
George Washington

What is the name of the closest star to Earth?
The Sun

What is the name of the tallest mountain on Earth?
Mount Everest

What is the name of the force that causes objects to fall towards the Earth?
Gravity

What is the name of the galaxy containing our solar system?
Milky Way

What is the name of the first element on the periodic table?
Hydrogen

What is the name of the largest ocean on Earth?
Pacific Ocean

What is the capital of Germany?
Berlin

What is the name of the first man on the moon?
Neil Armstrong

What is the name of the largest desert in the world?
Antarctic Polar Desert

What is the name of the largest volcano in our solar system?
Olympus Mons

What is the name of the process plants use to make food?
Photosynthesis

What is the name of the earth's primary layer below the crust?
Mantle


What is the name of the first programmable computer?
Zuse Z3

What is the name of the Earth's only natural satellite?
The Moon

What is the name of the first book in the Harry Potter series?
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone

What is the name of the US Declaration of Independence drafter?
Thomas Jefferson

What is the name of the first permanent English settlement in North America?
Jamestown

What is the standard unit of measurement for temperature in the metric system?
Celsius

What is the name of the first artificial satellite to orbit the Earth?
Sputnik 1

What is the name of the first synthetic plastic?
Bakelite

Who developed the theory of relativity?
Albert Einstein

What is the name of the Greek god of the sea?
Poseidon

What is the name of the war between the North and South regions of the United States?
American Civil War

What is the name of the branch of mathematics concerning continuous change?
Calculus

Who wrote the play Hamlet?
William Shakespeare

What is the hardest mineral?
Diamond

What is the name for a polygon with five sides?
Pentagon

What is the name of the largest continent?
Asia

What is the name of the first book of the New Testament?
Matthew

What is the name of the Earth's innermost layer?
Core

What is the name of the force that keeps planets in orbit around the sun?
Gravity

What is the name of the nearest major galaxy to the Milky Way?
Andromeda

What is the name of the smallest bone in the human body?
Stapes

What is the name of the Earth's outermost layer?
Crust

What is the name of the ancient stadium in Rome?
Colosseum

What is the name of the first book in the Bible?
Genesis

What is the name of the largest lake in Africa?
Lake Victoria

What is the name for an angle that measures greater than 90 degrees and less than 180 degrees?
Obtuse angle

Obtuse angle
What is the study of stars and celestial objects called?

What is the study of stars and celestial objects called?
Astronomy

What is the capital city of Australia?
Canberra

What is the name of the first hominid species to use fire?
Homo erectus

What is the name of the war that ended with the Treaty of Versailles?
World War I

What is the name of the first element heavier than hydrogen?
Helium

Helium
What is the name of the first antibiotic discovered?

What is the name of the first antibiotic discovered?
Penicillin

Penicillin
What is the name of the first permanent English settlement in North America?

What is the name of the Roman god of war?
Mars

What is the name of the straight line from the center to the circumference of a circle?
Radius

- What is the name of the first book printed in the Gutenberg press?
- The Gutenberg Bible

- The Gutenberg Bible
What is the name of the first President of the United States?

What is the name of the system of writing developed in ancient Egypt?
Hieroglyphics

What is the name of the force of attraction between objects with mass?
Gravity

What is the name of the first dynasty to rule China?
The Qin Dynasty

What is the chemical symbol for the element gold?
Au

What is the name of the process by which a liquid turns into a gas?
Evaporation

What is the study of living organisms called?
Biology

What is the name of the largest moon of Saturn?
Titan

What is the name of the first man to walk on the moon?
Neil Armstrong

What is the name of the first hominid species to use tools?
Homo habilis

What is the name of the largest desert on Earth?
Antarctic Polar Desert

What is the name of the branch of physics that deals with heat and temperature?
Thermodynamics

What is the name of the first successful vaccine?
Smallpox vaccine

What is the name of the first permanent English colony in Australia?
Sydney

- What is the name of the largest ocean on Earth?
- The Pacific Ocean

- What is the name of the first permanent English colony in Australia?
- Sydney

What is the name of the first book in the Old Testament?
Genesis

What is the name of the first permanent English colony in North America?
Jamestown

- What is the name of the first permanent English colony in North America?
- Jamestown

- What is the name of the first president of the United States?
- George Washington

- What is the name of the largest planet in our solar system?
- Jupiter

What is the name of the tallest mountain in the world?
Mount Everest

What is the chemical symbol for the element iron?
Fe

What is the name of the largest river in the world?
Amazon River

What is the standard temperature in Celsius at which water freezes?
0 degrees Celsius

What is the name of the tallest structure in the world?
Burj Khalifa

What is the name of the primary language spoken in Brazil?
Portuguese

What is the name of the first Greek letter?
Alpha

What is the name of the branch of mathematics dealing with points, lines, shapes, and spaces?
Geometry

What is the name of the unit of electrical resistance?
Ohm

What is the name of the process plants use to convert light energy into chemical energy?
Photosynthesis

What is the name of the largest continent on Earth?
Asia

What is the name of the first state to secede from the United States?
South Carolina

What is the name of the dwarf planet located in the Kuiper Belt?
Pluto

What is the name of the first battle of the American Civil War?
Fort Sumter

What is the name of the longest bone in the human body?
The femur

What is the name of the Earth's natural satellite?
The Moon

What is the chemical symbol for the element silver?
Ag

What is the name of the first book printed in English?
The Recuyell of the Historyes of Troye

What is the name of the first artificial satellite to orbit Earth?
Sputnik 1

What is the study of the human past using material remains called?
Archaeology

What is the name of the third planet from the Sun?
Earth

What is the name of the capital city of Australia?
Canberra

What is the name of the first programmable general-purpose electronic digital computer?
ENIAC

What is the name of the author of "Pride and Prejudice"?
Jane Austen

What is the boiling point of water in Fahrenheit?
212 degrees

What is the term for the number of protons in an atom's nucleus?
Atomic number

What is the name of the war fought between the North and South regions of the United States?
American Civil War

What is the name of the force that opposes motion between surfaces in contact?
Friction

What is the capital city of Canada?
Ottawa

What is the name of the nearest star to Earth?
The Sun

What is the name of the Roman god of the sea?
Neptune

What is the name of the largest country in the world by land area?
Russia

What is the name of the ancient amphitheater located in Rome?
Colosseum

Who developed the theory of general relativity?
Albert Einstein

What is the name of the first man in space?
Yuri Gagarin

What is the name of the ancient Egyptian writing system?
Hieroglyphics

What is the name of the process by which a liquid changes into a gas?
Evaporation

What is the name of the first permanent English settlement in India?
Surat

What instrument measures atmospheric pressure?
A barometer

What is the name of the ship that Charles Darwin sailed on?
HMS Beagle

What is the name of the main gas that makes up Earth's atmosphere?
Nitrogen

What is the name of the first month of the year?
January

Which country is known as the Land of the Rising Sun?
Japan

What is the name of the first book of the Harry Potter series?
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone

What is the name of the smallest prime number?
Two

What is the name of the biggest ocean on Earth?
The Pacific Ocean

What is the name of the Renaissance artist who painted the Mona Lisa?
Leonardo da Vinci

What is the name of the branch of science that studies the atmosphere?
Meteorology

What is the name of the longest river in the United States?
The Missouri River

What is the name of the largest hot desert in the world?
Antarctic Polar Desert

What is the name of the first book of the Bible?
Genesis

What is the name of the first President of the United States?
George Washington

What is the name of the system of government with a king or queen?
Monarchy

What is the name of the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation of inherited characteristics?
Genetics

What is the name of the largest planet in our solar system?
Jupiter

What is the name of the mountain range separating Europe from Asia?
Ural Mountains

What is the name of the largest species of shark?
Whale shark

What is the currency used in Japan?
Japanese Yen

Who painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel?
Michelangelo

What famous scientist formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation?
Isaac Newton

What is the name of the group of stars forming a recognizable pattern?
Constellation

What is the name of the smallest country in the world?
Vatican City

What is the power source of the James Webb Space Telescope?
Solar panels

What is the capital of Spain?
Madrid

What is the name of the world's tallest mountain?
Mount Everest

What is the name of the world's largest coral reef system?
The Great Barrier Reef

What is the name of the process by which plants convert light energy into chemical energy?
Photosynthesis

What is the name given to a triangle with all three sides of equal length?
Equilateral

What is the name for a group of lions?
A pride

What is the name of the substance that makes up the cell walls of plants?
Cellulose

What is the name of the battle that ended the Napoleonic Wars?
The Battle of Waterloo

What is the study of earthquakes called?
Seismology

Who invented the telephone?
Alexander Graham Bell

What is the name of the unit that measures electrical resistance?
Ohm

What is the name of the first successful vaccine to be developed?
Smallpox vaccine

What is the boiling point of water in degrees Celsius at sea level?
100

What famous playwright wrote Hamlet?
William Shakespeare

What is the hardest naturally occurring substance on Earth?
Diamond

What is the name of the force that pulls objects toward each other?
Gravity

Which US state is home to the Grand Canyon?
Arizona

Which country is home to the kangaroo?
Australia

Who was the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean?
Amelia Earhart

How many ventricles are there in the human heart?
There are four ventricles.

Which planet is known as the "Red Planet?"
Mars

What is the second planet from the sun?
Venus

What is the name for the number of protons found in the nucleus of an atom?
Atomic number

What is the name of the process by which plants lose water through their leaves?
Transpiration

What is the study of fungi called?
Mycology

What is the name of the element with the symbol Au?
Gold

What is the name of the ancient library in Egypt?
Library of Alexandria

What is the name of the first book of The Odyssey?
Telemachy

What is the name of the branch of mathematics dealing with continuous change?
Calculus

What is the name of the part of the plant that absorbs water and nutrients from the soil?
Root

What is the art of effective or persuasive speaking or writing?
Rhetoric

What is the name of the branch of physics that studies sound?
Acoustics

What is the name for a word or phrase formed by rearranging the letters of a different word or phrase?
Anagram

What is the name of the ship that Charles Darwin sailed on for his scientific expedition?
HMS Beagle

What is the name for a shape with eight sides and eight angles?
Octagon

What is the name of the largest moon of Neptune?
Triton

What is the name of the branch of science that deals with the study of matter and energy?
Physics

What type of cloud is associated with thunderstorms?
Cumulonimbus

What is the name of the first programmable electronic computer?
Colossus

What is the name of the first man-made satellite to orbit the Earth?
Sputnik 1

What is the study of the human past through material remains called?
Archaeology

What is the name of the layer of gases surrounding a planet or other celestial body?
Atmosphere

What is the name of the first book in the Old Testament of the Bible?
Genesis

What is the study of the stars and celestial objects called?
Astronomy

Who was the first man to walk on the moon?
Neil Armstrong

What is the name of the world's longest river?
The Amazon River

What is the chemical symbol for sodium?
Na

What is the name of the innermost layer of the Earth?
The core

What is the name of the treaty that formally ended World War I?
The Treaty of Versailles

What are animals that eat both plants and animals called?
Omnivores

What is the standard unit of currency in Japan?
Japanese Yen

What is the name for the largest type of blood vessel in the human body?
Aorta

What is the name of the mountain range that separates Europe from Asia?
The Ural Mountains.

What is the name of the country where the sport of Sumo wrestling originated?
Japan

Which explorer is credited with leading the first expedition to circumnavigate the Earth?
Ferdinand Magellan

What is the standard unit of mass in the metric system?
Kilogram

What is the name of the strait separating Spain from Africa?
Strait of Gibraltar

What is the study of the human body called?
Anatomy

What is the name of the Roman goddess of love and beauty?
Venus

What is the name of the largest continent in area?
Asia

What is the name of the first book of the Christian New Testament?
Matthew

Which country is home to the Eiffel Tower?
France

What is the name of the first artificial satellite to reach the Moon?
Luna 1

What is the boiling point of water at sea level in degrees Celsius?
100

What is the name of the branch of biology dealing with heredity and variation of inherited characteristics?
Genetics

What musical instrument did Jimi Hendrix play?
Guitar

What is the name of the standard monetary unit of the United Kingdom?
Pound sterling

What is the name of the galaxy that contains our solar system?
Milky Way

What is the name of the branch of medicine concerned with the study and treatment of the heart?
Cardiology

What is the name of the branch of zoology that studies insects?
Entomology

What is the name for an angle that is greater than 90 degrees and less than 180 degrees?
Obtuse angle

What is the name of the branch of physics that studies the properties and behavior of light?
Optics

What is the name of the first emperor of Rome?
Augustus

What is the name of the first book in the Quran?
Al-Fatiha

